### Date of Meeting
19 Nov, 2021

### Attendance

**Present:** David Perez-Suarez, Steven Christe, Stuart Mumford, Bin Chen, Kevin Reardon, Russell Hewett (partial), Tiago Pereira

**Absent:** Monica Bobra

**Agenda:**
* Lead Developer Update
* ROSES Project Plans
* SPD Funds
* Coordination Meeting 2022?
* Board Position Openings and Announcement Plans
* Board Restructuring Plan SEP
* Vision and Mission Statement SEP

## Meeting Notes

### Lead Developer Update
SunPy 3.1 was released. NDCube 2.0 released. Laura Hayes has taken over as comms manager. Still have lots of unfilled roles. Sub-packages managers listed on website likely out of date and should be updated. The project really needs the affiliated package lead roles to be filled as that falls by the way side.

Should we consider providing a stipend to fill these roles? Provide an inventive? Likely not a good idea.

NDCube SEP has reached community consensus and should be approved by the board.

### ROSES Project Plans
Albert Shih gave a nice overview talk at the Python in Heliophysics biweekly meeting last Monday. The recording is available [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1NTFDe1vp4ONEghHAh618pb3IIXtQML0y/view).

The main points of the project are to
* Develop shared infrastructure between all sponsored packages and a new package template
* Coordinates updates and DASK improvements
* Outreach to instrument teams and teaching and affiliated packages.

Will Barnes will start at Goddard in Feb and will work on this Project.

**Board Recommendation**: Steven be removed as one of the SunPy contacts to NumFOCUS and a project person be added.
**Board Recommendation**: The sunpy website should be update with information for potential proposers that may want to extend SunPy to explain how to coordinate with the project. The project should consider offering official letters of support for proposers to endorse a proposal.

### SPD Funds
Discussion on how to use the funds provided.
**Board Recommendation**: 
1. fund a yearly developer prize. Consider creating a prize committee. Prizes could be of order $500.
2. Fund a yearly general-purpose workshop/tutorial like software carpentry on version control and git. These tutorials should take place in June or before the summer so that summer interns (also REU and GSOC) could benefit. Presentations at conferences on SunPy-specific topics should continue.

### Coordination meeting
Will take place in Spring.

### Board Position Openings and Announcement Plans
Deferred subject and agreed on extending terms of expired positions by 6 months.

* Board Restructuring Plan SEP and Vision and Mission Statement SEP
They are not perfect but required. Can be fixed later. Much discussion has already taken place. Board should go ahead and approve through GitHub ASAP.

