Application for GSOC 2014
=========================

Student Information
-------------------
:Name: Pritish Chakraborty
:Email: chakrabortypritish@gmail.com
:Telephone: +919999xxxxxx
:Time Zone: +0530 GMT
:IRC handle: VaticanCameos@irc.freenode.net
:GitHub account: VaticanCameos
:Skype: pritish_dbz
:Blog: http://thejoyofpython.wordpress.com/
:Blog RSS Feed: http://www.thejoyofpython.wordpress.com/?tag=gsoc,python&feed=rss2

University Information
----------------------
:University: Manav Rachna International University
:Major: Computer Science and Engineering
:Current Year: 2014
:Expected Graduation: July, 2014
:Degree: Bachelor of Technology

Project Proposal Information
----------------------------
Title: *SunPy: Re-implementation of sunpy.wcs using astropy.coordinates*

Abstract
~~~~~~~~


Detailed Description
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Milestones:


Code Sample(s)
--------------
I have uploaded some patches on SunPy's Github which have been merged by 
means of pull requests. For example, the PR regarding `repr for Wave`_
provides a repr method for Wave objects, which are a part of VSO
attributes. The PR which was made for `distinguishing supported VSO objects`_ 
provides a frozenset which contains attributes of VSO which are currently
supported. This work has helped me get up to speed with SunPy's
workflow.

I am currently working on a `final year project`_ for college which
aims to convert PDF files to HTML files, which is a part of my
industrial training which began last year. The PDF shall be 
single-columnar and have a simple layout, and may have images and 
some graphics which are not too complex in nature.

To strengthen my grasp on Java, I had decided to find problems on
data structures and algorithms and implement them in Java. While these
may not exactly count as code samples, they are instrumental to my
growth as a programmer. See `DSA in Java`_.

Lastly, while I may not be able to present its code here, I would like
to mention that I had completed my industrial training under a well 
known IT services company last year. In a team of four, I was made 
the lead and we built the offline version of their flagship assessment 
exam center product over a period of six months, in C#. This training 
taught me a lot about how different real-world development is from 
writing simple programs as a hobby. Most importantly, it taught me 
how to absorb pressure and work against the odds, while working together
as a team.

Biography
---------
I am a 21 year old college student, studying computer science and engineering
and am in my final year. The first programming language that I ever touched was C,
and it aroused a lot of interest in me. I delved into C++ using a college book
and the Dev-C++ compiler, and taught myself a few things about classes and objects.
I haven't looked back since then. I am also very interested in information security
as a potential future career.

Other Schedule Information
--------------------------
Note: Times in this section are GMT+530.

According to the tentative schedule released by my university, my semester exams
will begin around the time of the coding period. I will try my best to complete
40 hours a week despite this minor tiff with exams. The good thing is that I have 
only five subjects whose exams will be conducted in this semester. In keeping with
GSoC rules, I will be enrolled as a student as of April 27th, 2014.


.. _repr for Wave: https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy/pull/786
.. _distinguishing supported VSO objects: https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy/pull/801
.. _final year project: https://github.com/VaticanCameos/pdfparsing
.. _DSA in Java: https://github.com/VaticanCameos/dsajava