============================================
 Google Summer of Code Application for 2014
============================================

Background
----------
I am a current high school senior, and my academic interests lie primarily in math, physics, and programming. Mathematics has always excited me as a subject, and I have taken online classes in multivariable calculus and differential equations with a local community college after exhausting my high school's curriculum. More recently, I have become interested in physics because it so heavily relies on the application of mathematical deduction to observation, and I enjoy learning about how mathematics applies to the natural world. In addition to programming, in my spare time I enjoy running, reading, and playing or listening to music.

Programming Information
-----------------------
I run Ubuntu Linux on my laptop, and my preferred editors generally vary by language. For standard text editing and programming in C++, I use emacs. However, I use Eclipse for Java projects and will use either emacs or IDLE when programming in Python. Although emacs has a bit of a learning curve, I find it very useful as an editor because its numerous commands and macros allow for faster and more powerful editing. I also often use IDLE simply because I’ve been using it longer than emacs and I like its syntax highlighting and interactive shell.

My programming background extends back to 7th grade, when I discovered MIT’s educational programming tool Scratch. After playing around with Scratch and reading more about programming, I used online tutorials to teach myself Java. From making small computer games with friends to trying out programming challenges like Project Euler and Code Golf, I then continued to immerse myself in the world of programming and soon picked up experience with C++ and Python. Since then, I have continued to enjoy programming recreationally. 			Although I haven’t often worked on large programming projects, one project I particularly enjoyed working on was the creation of an OpenGL-based 3D engine in C++. This project was exciting to work on because it involved learning about graphics programming, which contains interesting mathematical underpinnings (such as matrix transformations and quaternions). I also incorporated simple models of mathematical and physical phenomena in the engine, such as Lindenmayer systems (or L-systems), which allow for the rendering of fractal patterns which imitate such natural objects as plants, and particle systems, which can be used to create interesting effects like fireworks or the flow of a water fountain. Although I didn’t implement very advanced versions of these effects, I enjoyed discovering new intersections between math, physics, and programming. These intricate relationships continue to excite me, and I hope to explore the applications of computer science to other fields in future.

I have been using Python in particular for about three years, and I find it very useful as a language whenever high-level programming is appropriate. Although there is somewhat of a performance hit in using Python compared to more mid-level languages like C or C++, its ease of use and natural syntax have allowed me to program more quickly and with less propensity for error. I particularly enjoy the most distinctive, or “Pythonic”, aspects of Python, such as list comprehensions, generators, and lambda expressions. In fact, I’ve often found that when I return to C++ or Java after using Python for a while, I become annoyed at having to translate one of these features into a more cumbersome syntax. In my opinion, Python’s most useful language feature is the existence of iterables and functions relating to them. ``for i, elem in enumerate(elem_set): foo(elem, i)`` is far clearer and easier to use than the C++ equivalent ``for (std::set<int>::iterator it = elem_set.begin(); it != elem_set.end(); ++it) { foo(*it, it - elem_set.begin()); }``, and standard library functions like map() and zip() make it much simpler to operate on elements of a container.

I am reasonably comfortable with git, having previously contributed to a friend’s project on BitBucket and having begun contributing to Sunpy on GitHub. As of this writing, I have four merged pull requests for Sunpy (https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy/pull/854, https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy/pull/859, https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy/pull/861, http://github.com/sunpy/sunpy/pull/877) as well as two currently unmerged pull requests (https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy/pull/883 and https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy/pull/901). These have mostly involved documentation and renaming, but #859 involved adding tests for each public function in the previously untested module ``util.util``.

Project Details
---------------
Abstract
~~~~~~~~
Since the Sunpy library is intended for use by solar physicists and is therefore highly scientific in nature, a powerful framework for describing the position of points in 3-dimensional space is highly important. Currently, Sunpy contains a number of functions in ``sunpy.wcs.wcs``, such as ``convert_hpc_hcc`` and ``convert_hcc_hg``, for converting between various coordinate systems. However, this system is less than ideal as it simply uses ``bumpy.ndarray`` for coordinate data and therefore misses out on useful coordinate functionality.

Luckily, the project Astropy (closely related to the Sunpy project) contains a useful coordinate package in ``astropy.coordinates``. However, as part of APE5 (Astropy Proposal for Enhancement #5), Astropy will be switching to a new coordinate framework involving the classes ``CoordinateFrame`` and ``CoordinateRepresentation``, which reduces ambiguity regarding the definition of various terms regarding coordinates and fixes previous issues with the ``satrapy.coordinates`` package. It would be extremely helpful to incorporate this new framework into the Sunpy library.

Accordingly, my proposal is to use Astropy's new coordinate framework to implement Helio-Projective and Helio-Centric ``CoordinateFrame``s using the new inheritance model spelled out in APE5. After doing so, I plan on implementing functions allowing for easy conversion between the two systems and for conversion between these coordinate systems and other coordinate systems in Astropy.

Detailed Description
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Not yet decided.

Additional Information
----------------------
The last day of classes for me will be May 27 (the beginning of the second week of coding), so I will not be able to devote 40 hours for the first week. However, I anticipate that I will have very little, if any, schoolwork and I should be able to complete the set tasks for week 1. If not, then I can make up for missed work the next couple of weeks. Except for the first week, I will be fully capable of spending 40 hours per week on Google Summer of Code.

I have set up a blog for Google Summer of Code (http://muellergsoc.blogspot.com), which I intend to use weekly during the summer for progress reports. I will also be available for regular contact with my project mentor over the course of the summer through IRC, email, phone calls, or any other mutually convenient form of communication.