### Agenda

  - Vote on new member (Kevin Reardon)
  - SunPy and numfocus
  - Update on student projects
  - the dev community
  - funding opportunities
  - Lead developerï»¿
  - SunPy transparency

### Attendance
**Present**: Steven Christe (Chair), David Perez-Suarez (Vice-Chair), Andrew Inglis (Secretary), Juan Carlos Martinez Oliveros, Albert Shih, Stuart Mumford, Jack Ireland, Russell Hewett. 
**Absent**: Tom Robitaille

### Meeting Notes

  - It is **proposed to add a new member to the SunPy Board - Kevin Reardon**. Kevin is part of the DKIST team.
    - DKIST project is already invested/interested in Python.
    - It is noted that under current rules the board size **cannot exceed 10 people**. Kevin would be the 10th board member.
    - as an aside, a number of board members terms are due to expire on 31st December 2015. Those members are **Andy**, **Russell** and **Stuart** 

    - **Vote proceeds** on appointment of Kevin Reardon as a SunPy board member:
	      	   **7-0 (1 abstention) in favour of Kevin joining the SunPy Board**


  - Discussion on **Numfocus**
    - Numfocus could provide a fiscal mechanism for dealing with SunPy as a distinct entity (i.e. funding/donations).
    - SunPy must act to further the tax-exempt goals of Numfocus. SunPy would become part of numfocus and they would be our legal entity.
    - Some questions on how would this work in terms of grant applications. Need some clarification.
    - the Board needs more time to research numfocus. Steven suggests we plan a vote for the next meeting.
    - **Russell** suggests there should be public consultation with the wider SunPy community.

  - Student projects
    - **David** wants to discuss how we can improve our mentorship of summer students. Skip this for now and address at a Dev meeting instead.

  - Dev community
    - Community has been quiet since 0.6 release. Seems that there are new members of the community who need more active support. 
    - issue is that most of the current developers are short of time. Need to make sure to encourage newer members.

  - **Lead Developer**
    - **Albert** volunteers to step down as Lead Developer due to lack of time.
    - Vote on re-installing **Stuart** as lead developer:
	     	**6-0 in favour (2 abstentions). Stuart is the new Lead Developer**.

  - **Russell** departs
		
  - Meeting transparency
    - under current rules, board meetings are semi-private, but people should be able to come and observe.
    - **Stuart** suggests better advertising that Board meetings are happening, so people can know when to request attendance.
    - distribute info to the main sunpy lists, but not things like solar news
    - no need to have videos online.

  - **Steven** departs

	
  - Funding opportunities
    - **Jack** and **Steven** will be talking to Michael Hesse next week about funding for SunPy. Michael Hesse is the Heliophyics Division Director at Goddard.

  - Meeting adjourns
	
		   
