
This will be the first of a yearly series of in-person SunPy Coordination meetings. The purpose of this meeting is to 
* plan for the next sunpy core release cycle
* coordinate development across all of the core subpackages
* coordinate development between SunPy and affiliated packages
* discuss long-term roadmap
* enable in-person development

The meeting will be open for anyone to attend but key team members (e.g. maintainers, affiliated package leads, key devs, SunPy board members) will be invited. This meeting will also be used as an opportunity to recognize outstanding contributions to the community.

If you are planning to attend, either in-person or remotely, please fill out the following form https://forms.gle/qjt6YKSCFciqFi3o8

**Meeting time frame**: March 30 to April 3.

**Meeting Place**: Adnet, Greenbelt, Maryland, U.S.A.

Discussion topics are to be decided by the community but the meeting should begin with a state of union talk by the lead developer followed by lightning talks by each of the sub-package maintainers as well as affiliated package leads.

Potential topics include state of the developer community, SunPy governance, infrastructure, testing, diversity of the community, outreach, tutorials and education, documentation improvements.

### Travel Funding
Limited travel funding is available upon request.

### Schedule

A board meeting to take place during one of the evenings.

The meeting agenda is being openly discussed and determined on the following [google sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/19n1qnlu04BmRbvDP718mxWlg5UBYbFFY0QkNm720uFg/edit?usp=sharing) as well as in the following chat room: [https://riot.im/app/#/room/!vDAPettCDpqBqinmaF:matrix.org](https://riot.im/app/#/room/!vDAPettCDpqBqinmaF:matrix.org)

#### Monday, 30 March

<table>
<tbody>
    <tr>
    <th>Time</th>
    <th>Title</th>
    <th>Speaker</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>9:00</td>
    <td>Welcome</td>
    <td>Steven Christe</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>9:10</td>
    <td> State of the Union: sunpy core</td>
    <td >Stuart Mumford</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>9:40</td>
    <td>
        State of the Union: subpackages (~7 minutes each)
        <ul>
            <li>coordinates: Albert Shih</li>
            <li>image: Jack Ireland</li>
            <li>instr: Daniel Ryan</li>
            <li>map: Stuart Mumford</li>
            <li>physics: Jack Ireland</li>
            <li>roi: David P&eacute;rez-Su&aacute;rez</li>
            <li>sun: Steven Christe</li>
            <li>time: Laura Hayes</li>
            <li>timeseries: Laura Hayes</li>
            <li>visualization: Daniel Ryan</li>
            <li>documentation: Monica Bobra</li>
        </ul>
    </td>
    <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>11:10</td>
    <td align="center" colspan="2">Break</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>11:25</td>
    <td>
        State of the Union: Affiliated Packages (~12 minutes each)
        <ul>
          <li>ndcube: Daniel Ryan</li>
          <li>drms: Kolja Glogowski</li>
          <li>radiospectra: David P&eacute;rez-Su&aacute;rez</li>
          <li>IRISPy/sunraster: Daniel Ryan</li>
        </ul>
    </td>
    <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>12:15</td>
    <td align="center" colspan="2">Lunch</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>13:45</td>
    <td>
        Policies and Workflows for Maintaining the Core Package
        <ul>
            <li> A Good git History: Albert Shih
        </ul>
    </td>
    <td>Stuart Mumford, Nabil Freij</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>14:45</td>
    <td align="center" colspan="2">Break</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>15:00</td>
    <td>
        SunPy v2.0 Roadmap Discussion
        <ul>
            <li>Vision Statement</li>
            <li>The Scope of the Core Package: revisiting <a href="https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy/issues/2483">Issue#2483</a>
            <li>Recording Authorship (see <a href="https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy/issues/3650">Issue#3650</a>)</li>
        </ul>
    </td>
    <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>16:30</td>
    <td align="center" colspan="2">Adjourn</td>
    </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Tuesday, 31 March

<table>
<tbody>
    <tr>
    <th>Time</th>
    <th>Title</th>
    <th>Speaker</th>
    </tr>
    <tr><td colspan="3" align="center"><em>Community Interactions</em></td></tr>
    <tr>
    <td>9:00</td>
    <td>Results from the survey of computational tools in solar physics</td>
    <td>Monica Bobra (?), Stuart Mumford (?)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>9:30</td>
    <td>How do we turn users into contributors?</td>
    <td>Laura Hayes (?), Will Barnes</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>10:30</td>
    <td>A summer school on sunpy/Python for solar physics</td>
    <td>Will Barnes, Stuart Mumford</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>11:00</td>
    <td align="center" colspan="2">Break</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>11:15</td>
    <td>Consistently Gathering User Information (e.g. via telemetry, surveys)</td>
    <td>Steven Christe</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>12:30</td>
    <td align="center" colspan="2">Lunch</td>
    </tr>
    <tr><td colspan="3" align="center"><em>Instrument and Affiliated Packages</em></td></tr>
    <tr>
    <td>13:30</td>
    <td>aiapy: A Python Package for Analyzing Data from SDO/AIA</td>
    <td>Will Barnes</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>13:45</td>
    <td>Discussion on Effective Communication Between SunPy Developers and Instrument Teams</td>
    <td>Kevin Reardon (?), Bin Chen (?)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>15:00</td>
    <td align="center" colspan="2">Break</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>15:15</td>
    <td>Python in Heliophysics (PyHC) Projects and Their Relation to SunPy</td>
    <td>Jack Ireland, Daniel Ryan</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>17:00</td>
    <td align="center" colspan="2">Adjourn</td>
    </tr>
</tbody>
</table>


#### Wednesday, 1 April

<table>
<tbody>
    <tr>
    <th>Time</th>
    <th>Title</th>
    <th>Speaker</th>
    </tr>
    <tr><td colspan="3" align="center"><em>Adding/Removing Features in the Core Package</em></td></tr>
    <tr>
    <td>9:00</td>
    <td>Should we move the instrument subpackage out of sunpy core?</td>
    <td>Will Barnes</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>9:30</td>
    <td>Should we move the Helioviewer code out of sunpy core?</td>
    <td>Jack Ireland</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>10:00</td>
    <td>CompositeMap: Improve or Remove? (see <a href="https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy/issues/2150">Issue#2150</a>)</td>
    <td>Jack Ireland</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>11:00</td>
    <td align="center" colspan="2">Break</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>11:15</td>
    <td>Support for Solar Orbiter Data</td>
    <td>David Stansby</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>11:40</td>
    <td>Supporting Velocities in the Coordinates Framework</td>
    <td>Albert Shih</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>12:05</td>
    <td>RA/Dec. Coordinate Frame with an Observer Origin</td>
    <td>Albert Shih</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>12:30</td>
    <td align="center" colspan="2">Lunch</td>
    </tr>
    <tr><td colspan="3" align="center"><em>Testing, CI, and DevOps</em></td></tr>
    <tr>
    <td>13:30</td>
    <td>New Features in Python 3.7 and 3.8</td>
    <td>David Stansby</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>14:00</td>
    <td>Places to Make Use of setuptools Entry Points</td>
    <td>Albert Shih</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>14:30</td>
    <td>Testing Using hypothesis</td>
    <td>Albert Shih</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>15:00</td>
    <td align="center" colspan="2">Break</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>15:15</td>
    <td>The State of our CI</td>
    <td>Stuart Mumford</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>16:00</td>
    <td>Dependencies: Do we have too many? What versions of them should we support?</td>
    <td>Stuart Mumford</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>17:00</td>
    <td align="center" colspan="2">Adjourn</td>
    </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

#### Thursday, 2 April and Friday, 3 April

Hack days. List topics here.

* Retemplating Affiliated Packages in the post-astropy-helpers Era
* sunpy core Issue Triage
* sunkit-dem

If need be, any topics not covered on the first three days could bleed into
these two days as well.

