### Date of Meeting

18 November 2019

### Attendance

**Present:** Steven Christe (Chair), Tiago Pereira, David Pérez-Suárez, Jack Ireland, Russell Hewett, Kevin Reardon, Bin Chen, Stuart Mumford

**Absent:** Sabrina Savage, Monica Bobra

### Agenda

* **SunPy Roles**
* **NumFocus Summit Report**
* **Python in Heliophysics Report**
* **SunPy Survey and Papers**
* **SunPy Coordination Meeting**
* **Instrument Package Working Group**
* **OpenAstronomy**
* **Other Business**

***

### Meeting Notes

**SunPy Roles**:

[List of Proposed Roles](https://demo.codimd.org/rYN6JhH2RzK50QUBzyVcSA?view#)

Discussion of difference between _Affiliated package liaison_ and _Instrument package liaison_<BR>
    Affiliated package liaison is for a specific set of SunPy-adjacent packages; instrument packages might not be, or want to be, affiliated packages, so needs are different.

How we get this rolling? We don't need a vote, just a "blessing" from the board.<BR>
Stuart wants to write a blog post, with time commitments estimates, and email the mailing list.
A PR will be created with a time limit for comments.

Monica got some suggestions from Brigitta at Astropy that she tried to incorporate in the roles list.

* Don't have too many roles – this leads to viscosity in taking action
* Number of community and technical roles should be balanced, to indicate equal importance.

<U>Actions:</U><BR>
– blog post and email about available roles<BR>
– create a PR for roles<BR>

**NumFocus Summit Report:**

Board received an update from Stuart and Monica on the NumFOCUS Summit. Primary topics were:

* Governance:<BR>
Steven to look over the board governance ([SEP-002](https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy-SEP/blob/master/SEP-0002.md)) and propose edits<BR>
The current process makes making decisions harder than it needs to be (Steve notes that allowing votes only at board meetings is onerous).<BR>
Monica will contact Sophie and confirm her appointment as Education and Community lead<BR>
* Code of Conduct reporting: <BR>
For example: The [NumFOCUS code of conduct](https://numfocus.org/code-of-conduct) has a direct link to a [Reporting Form](https://numfocus.typeform.com/to/ynjGdT) to register potential violations of the CoC.<BR>
Sophie will come up with a draft
Stuart will connect Sophie with Gina at NumFOCUS and Sophie will come up with a draft reporting form.
* Attracting funding:<BR>
We should put together a flyer about project vision (why), key target areas (what), and funding needs (how much).<BR>
SunPy has a mission statement (how we operate), but not much of a vision statement (where we are going)
* Discourse for SunPy:<BR>
Stuart applied for and got a free instance.
This might be more useful for developer communication than board;

<U>Actions:</U><BR>
– Steven to propose edits to SEP-002.<BR>
– Sophie will come up with a draft Code of Conduct reporting form.

**Python in Heliophysics Report:**

Pushed to next meeting or email due to lack of time.

**SunPy Papers:**

<U>Software Survey Paper -</U><BR>
Paper is being drafted for submission to _Solar Physics_.
If Stuart is corresponding author, then through UK agreement it will be OpenAccess.<BR>
Monica would like it if whole board were co-authors - will add weight to paper.<BR>
John Leibacher agreed to make it an “Editor's Choice” paper.<BR>
Follow up with an “Op Ed” piece somewhere else – offering more guidance and ideas about community future. Keep the paper more “factual.”

<U>SunPy Paper: -</U><BR>
The _Astrophysical Journal_ and _Journal of Open Source Software_ papers have been accepted!
We are waiting for proofs for the ApJ paper. Steve is pinging them again.

**SunPy Coordination Meeting**:

This should be an exposition and planning meeting for SunPy developers (congruous to similar, but larger, meetings for Astropy, NumPy, etc.).<BR>
Board members will be strongly encouraged to attend.<BR>
Not necessarily for all “solar python” aficionados (i.e users), but only those invested in SunPy development. Instrument teams will be welcome if they are interested in learning about SunPy.<BR>
Exact dates are not defined, but are constrained by other meeting schedules, summer, etc. Exact dates will be subject of Doodle Poll.

**Instrument Package Working Group**:

At last IRIS meeting, Tiago talked to various groups working on instrument packages (e.g. IRIS, Solar Orbiter), who were all interested in how to integrate with SunPy and/or think about their development in the bigger framework.<BR>
This led to the idea of a Working Group is to foster communication among different groups developing instrument specific software packages. The goal is to avoid SolarSoft-like duplicative/conflicting development, even if this means initially avoiding placing any barriers or requirements on participation in working group (e.g. open-source only or following PyHC standards).
SunPy will participate to raise awareness of existing approaches and implementations and promote adoption of SunPy frameworks where appropriate.<BR>
The group will agree on a code of conduct.<BR>

<U>Actions:</U><BR>
– Kevin will send out an initial email/invitation to groups listed in Google Doc and board members to set up initial organizational meeting.

**OpenAstronomy**:

Money pot for Google Summer of Code may be managed by SunPy. This will make it easier for us to manage while David keeps that role in OpenAstronomy and SunPy.<BR>
We currently have $3,600 from previous years, and an additional $1,800 to be transferred to our account.

**Other Business:**

We should make a public announcement about Jack's NASA/HDEE funding for SunPy projects, plus Dan Ryan's project (ndcube), on Twitter, mailing lists, blog post, and to Numfocus. Is a SolarNews announcement appropriate?

<U>Actions:</U><BR>
– Steve will talk to Peter Young, SPD secretary, about a possible announcement.
