### Date of Meeting

22 September 2017

### Attendance

**Present:** Steven Christe (Chair), Sabrina Savage (Secretary), Albert Shih, Juan Carlos Martinez Oliveros, Monica Bobra, David Perez-Suarez, Kevin Reardon, Jack Ireland

**Absent:** Stuart Mumford, Russ Hewett

### Meeting Notes

**Versioning Discussion:**

* How to handle releases?
  * Stuart wants to define a 1.0 release as the next version (soon): 0.9->1.0
  * 1.0 would mean that the existing API is stable
    * Contents would not change drastically
    * Constitutes a "real release" (i.e. diverging from beta release)
  * 2.0 would indicate another significant change

* Versioning control system (VCS)?
  * Symantic VCS option
    * Major numbers incremented with API changes
    * Stuart's preference
  * Steven proponent of using "1.0" to define "feature complete"
    * Equivalent to having all of the base classes defined
    * It was noted that spectrum base is missing, needs a lot of work

* Decision handling?
  * Does the board formalize the VCS?
  * If not, what happens if the lead developer changes?
    * Not desirable for the VCS to change based on developer.
  * Agreement that the board should have say in the framework (but not necessarily the choice of system).
    * Consensus that Stuart will take lead on choice of VCS.

**Potential SPD funding/support**

* Monica discussed the possibility of funding support with the SPD committee at the August SPD meeting in Portland
  * SPD noted that they are not a funding agency but was open to helping out within their capacity to do so
    * Cannot be for funding development.
  * Need to provide a letter with a specific request from the board indicating how funds are used
  * Board discussed funding request options that aligned with SPD goals (diversity, inclusion, community engagement)
    * Examples:
      * Workshops (evening vs. dedicated; advanded vs. beginners)
      * Prize:  reward system for development to increase usage and recognition
      * Funding a junior person to support as a deputy lead developer
      * Advocating to agencies/advisory committees.
        * What are the boundaries on agency outreach?
        * Need information on SPD public policy.
      * Does the SPD have any concession on OpenSource codes, etc.?
      * Servers/infrastructure
        * Analytics; replacement for "readthedocs"
  * Discussion of how an additional funding source interacts with NumFOCUS funding
    * Does funding need to go through NumFOCUS?
    * Noted that SunPy cannot hold money.
    * The only funds available to SunPy currently (very small amount) is through NumFOCUS.
      * NumFOCUS is an avenue for accepting funds.
    * Steven advocated for donating to NumFOCUS through SPD, if possible.
  * Jack to attend NumFOCUS sustainability summit Oct. 10-11, will raise this issue
  * Discussion about general concern over whether institutions or individuals should donate funds.
    * Monica raised the issue that people take these community tools for granted, which has been noted in published articles.
  * Board agreed to pursue more information
    * Jack will interface with NumFOCUS
    * Sabrina will interface with the SPD committee

**AOB**

* Steven discussed IRISPy with Bart De Pontieu.
  * Bart interested in having someone from IRIS on board.
  * Steven to pursue reasoning and pros/cons.
  * What consequences would this have for other similar projects?
  * Decision TBD.
