### Date of Meeting

19 June 2018

### Attendance

- **Present: David, Stuart, Juan, Steve, Monica, Sabrina (partial), Kevin**
- **Absent: Juan, Jack, Russel**

### Notes by

- Steven & Sabrina

### Agenda

1. NAS and NASA OSS
2. TESS Meeting, Python Meeting and helioPython, SPD business meeting
3. Python Survey
4. Affiliated Packages
5. Adoption of AstroPy Time
6. Executive Director vote and board term extensions

### Meeting Notes

**Topic 1: NAS and NASA OSS**

The NASA-funded National Academies study on [Best Practices for a Future Open Code Policy for NASA Space Science](http://sites.nationalacademies.org/SSB/CurrentProjects/SSB_178892) likely to release findings soon.

**Topic 2: TESS Meeting**

Jack attended the SPD business meeting. They committed to providing some funding to organize a Python meeting at the next SPD meeting. Sabrina will remain the POC to the SPD committee. Need to organize and figure out what is needed.

Steven and Andy Inglis attended the Python meeting TESS. Primary output is that Aaron Roberts (NASA HQ) has funded [Alex deWolf](http://lasp.colorado.edu/home/personnel/alex.dewolfe/) to facilitate the development of Python for Heliophysics (see [heliopython.org](heliopython.org)) and will fund a "PyHelio" type meeting to begin organizing.

A [room](https://chat.openastronomy.org/#/room/#heliopython:openastronomy.org) is now available to facilitate communication

**Topic 3: Python Survey**

It was all agreed that a survey developed by Monica & Stuart(?) [draft](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1X6ti5ec0SkMqL5P40bIxpJTC8uKmvXwLHr5p84SzVnc/edit) and based on the astropy survey of coding practices is a great idea and it is appropriate for it to be promoted as a board action. Monica will lead the finalizing of the survey and release. Board members should comment and Monica will send a final version to the board before sending it out.

**Topic 4: Affiliated Packages**

_Vote_: To accept NDCube as an affiliated package was all in favor (no abstain)
_Vote_: To accept radiospecta as an affiliated package was all in favor (no abstain)

Proposed change to SEP4 [here](https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy-SEP/pull/34/files?short_path=4acb487#diff-4acb48776482ed278078b84d4153b9f2) currently in draft form. Discussion ensued.

_Vote_: To allow to allow for approval of SEP through github PR approval process was all in favor (no abstain)

**Topic 5: Adoption of AstroPy Time**

Proposed SEP to move to using AstroPy time [here](https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy-SEP/pull/32/files?short_path=6af3642#diff-6af364282ff05fde769ea1cacd533f77)

General consensus that this is a good idea. Most users may not encounter this change as much of our
API accepts times as strings anyway.

SEP is currently in draft form and will be cleaned up.

_Vote_: To allow to allow for approval of SEP through github PR approval process was all in favor (no abstain)

**Topic 6: Executive Director vote and board term extensions**

_Vote_: To re-approve Stuart as ED was all in favor (no abstain)

_Vote_: To re-approve Stuart as member of the board in favor (no abstain)

Current members whose terms have timeout as Russ and Juan Carlos (both not present). Need to contact them to see if they want to continue as members of the board.

**Topics Misc.**

Should definitely try to contribute to the AGU session on Python and organize a meeting there.
Steven to organize a quarterly meeting instead of calling meetings ad-hoc.
