### Date of Meeting

7th May 2016

### Attendance

**Present**: Steven Christe (Chair), David Perez-Suarez (Vice-Chair), Andrew Inglis (Secretary), Albert Shih, Juan Carlos Martinez Oliveros, Stuart Mumford, Russell Hewett, Kevin Reardon

**Absent**: Jack Ireland, Tom Robitaille

### Agenda

- sunpy logo update
- joining numfocus
- SEP vote (<https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy-SEP/pull/19>)
- SEP discussion (<https://github.com/sunpy/sunpy-SEP/pull/10>)
- new board member
- plans for SPD meeting
- update from ED (e.g. release schedule)

### Minutes of Meeting

- Lead Developer update:
  - next point release of 0.6 is almost ready.
  - 0.7 - a feature freeze is proposed by Thursday 13th May, in time for a release the following week.
  - Also, there is a new SunPy Gallery in the docs.

- SPD:
  - one or two evening sessions for SunPy demo. First night would be intro to scientific python, second night SunPy itself.
  - unfortunately no poster for SunPy this time.

- Google Summer of Code (GSOC):
  - 3 students this year. Projects are:
    - add capability for real time data
    - database improvement
    - AIA and CHIANTI. Response functions.

- numfocus
  - Numfocus provides a structure for joining a nonprofit organisation easily.
  - Gives SunPy a mechanism to receive money.
  - E.g. in the Open Astronomy org, there is no easy way to receive money from GSOC. Joining numfocus would provide a mechanism.
  - **Stuart** is not getting any response from numfocus at the moment. Need to press them.

  - **VOTE** on pursuing joining numfocus. **Result is 7 for, 1 abstention**. **David** is assigned to pursue this further.

- **VOTE** on standardization of SEPs and adding a list of SEPs. **8 in favour, no abstentions**

- **Steven** discusses the SunPy logo:
  - want to trademark the SunPy logo. But current font used is not free for all purposes - would have to license it from Adobe. Also not so scale friendly.
  - Solution is to change font to a free open source one. Standardise the colors used. **Steven** shows some examples
  - Just make minimal changes for now - a full rebranding can come later.

- new board member. Still looking for a potential replacement for Tom, who is looking to step down.

- meta SEP
  - shelve discussion until next time. Discuss in Developer meeting instead.

- **Juan Carlos** raises concern about user-friendliness of SunPy, in particular new units functionality. He has found in practice that the API can be unintuitive. Need to look into this.

**Meeting adjourns**.
