
### Date of Meeting

24 Jun, 2022

### Attendance

**Present:** Tiago Pereira, Monica Bobra, Stuart Mumford, Kevin Reardon

**Absent:** Russell Hewett, Steven Christe, David Perez-Suarez, Jack Ireland

**Agenda:**

* TESS Plans and SPD funding
* ROSES SunPy Project Update
* Governance Changes
* Membership
* SunPy paper
* Instrument Team Outreach

## Meeting Notes

### TESS Plans and SPD Funding
TESS Plans and SPD funding â€“ Will is working with Dale Gary to arrange a time for a SunPy workshop/town hall. Timing is still TBD. SPD funds will be used to purchase refreshments during the workshop.

### ROSES SunPy Project Update
Will Barnes has started part time and will increase his share of time next year. Stuart's funding is held up in getting the sub-award NumFocus. Different people are working on the various components of the project - infrastructure, coordinates, dask, community training.

### Governance Changes
There has been an increasing disconnect between board members and active developers. Stuart has recently participated in a lot of governance discussions within the AstroPy project.

The AstroPy experience - they started with an internal four-person committee. This wasn't sufficiently formal to be funded directly by NSF. They have gone about setting up a framework with an advisory board and voting contributors.

Four aspects of governance:
* Financial oversight and documentation
* Monitoring and directing development work
* Providing avenue for community to guide/provide input on project directions
* Ombudsman and process for dispute resolution and ensuring equitable practices

Stuart has written a document describing a new governance structure. The plan is to discuss this at the SunPy Coordination meeting in August. After some cleanup and fleshing out, Stuart  will send this around to the current board for comment prior to the Coordination Meeting discussions.

### Membership
Previous meeting notes show board member terms were extended to 2023. We need to update SunPy wiki with all meeting notes/minutes.

Next board meeting will be scheduled for September to discuss governance document following the discussions at the Coordination Meeting.

### Topics not covered: SunPy Paper, Instrument Team outreach

Action Items:
* Post meeting notes on wiki (KR)
* Send governance document to board (SM)
* Update SEP-006 (MB)
* Send email to board members to gauge interest (MB)
